your co-host looks like I have I is just
not showing the option for me just looks
like it's recording now somebody hit the
button III did I did okay
really it also shows me the option to
livestream it but it's option today
yeah it doesn't show that the streaming
tag okay I do you want to take a minute
to troubleshoot that or should we just
get started I think if it's out here
it's wrong I'm going to show up
sometimes change yeah probably
okay well let's get started and we'll
put up the recording we used to later so
looks like we have a whole bunch of
things on the agenda today and so let's
get started
Lytle okay so to make it easier that's
assumed it would be easier if I share my
screen okay so I'll be giving a very
quick update of where we are with an
equation to see id version 1 in base
virtual representation basically a short
version of the back on this issue is we
want to switch the default
representation of our content
identifiers to base 42 to see ID version
1 and code it in verse 52
the safest the most universal
representation we can have and that way
we always have the same likes string and
users are not confused by changing
identifiers there are contexts when user
may opt in to a different base encoding
or stuff like that but we are talking
about the default and it's like a big
endeavor we are tracking that in this
meta issue and requires changes across
our entire ecosystem so basically we
have open issues and started working on
pull requests in smaller libraries and
the like the bulk of the work is in go
ipfs and J's ipfs basically we are
working on coordinating both
implementation to both implementations
to implement the same heuristics and
like best practices when it comes to
user facing interfaces and conventions
so I just wanted to highlight that Kevin
is taking a lead on the go ipfs site and
he already fixed the issue that the
issue about resolving old multi hashes
using CD version 1 that was like a very
low-level specific thing I think
specific to go ITF s so that is
addressed and right now there are open
issues about designing the interface for
picking based representation like for
giving user ability to pick the
representation when they add it or when
they interact with our IP eyes so
there's two steps and the end goal will
be to switch the default but before that
happens we need to make sure everything
works and
it will be an opt-in for some time so
on-the-go ipfs part there is a big ask
from Kevin for other leads from Goa qfs
to review some open issues and just give
some thoughts
there are usually one or two options to
pick from so we would really appreciate
if someone unblocked this as like Kevin
and others could move forward with this
so that's the state of Goa TFS that the
biggest problem the resulting stuff is
properly done and now we need to make
sure the UX part and entire user
interface and API circle consistent and
similarly we have the same work needs to
be done on Jace ipfs site and we
basically are following what happens on
Goya TFS basically the same discussion
so what will be agreed on the go ipfs
part when it comes to like user facing
interfaces and command-line parameters
or API parameters the way with the
default base encoding the same thing
will be implemented on the JSI PFS side
and I have already started working on
acting like basic CID support in acro
across entire library echo system and so
this is kind of blocked by the go idea
files but mainly because we will share
the same user UX on the common line and
API part so if someone could unblock Goa
qfs that would be really beneficial to
this as well and like I also while I'll
be working on the native protocol
handler I started making sure we reuse
as much as possible of the code and I
started noticing parts of the our stack
that are
implemented around multi hashes and
start debugging support for CID version
1 and automatically in making sure it
works fine with base 52 so it's like
ongoing effort and I think that's that
that's it for update I'll stop sharing
screen so I can see your faces yeah so
any questions to this yeah Johnny so I'm
talking to Christopher Allen and one at
the Web Summit in San Francisco and
Christopher Alan was trying to convince
Juan that there was a more constrained
flavor of base 32 called betch 32
they're using in Bitcoin and I don't
really I'm looking right now to figure
out what the differences are and but he
had a good rationale for why that would
be a better base 32 something to look
into
mm-hm
okay so I just you know like the main
part here is not which bases you're
using it's the ability to test things in
any basement one so we could switch any
basic use this cream cheese base in one
action fact three multivator yeah so
basically we are not like that we need a
specific version of base 42 down car and
the requirement is to have the to have a
default representation that is case
insensitive that's basically it right so
sure and all this work I described is
like agnostic when it comes to the
specific hash would be I agree we can
like discuss this separately Rob
when you were talking about the go i PF
s issue that Kevin's leading and said
you need to help to unblock it are you
looking for people to dive in and just
write the code for some of those
blocking issues or you looking for
people to get feedback
oh it's basically Kevin Metta if you dig
into the go ipfs specific issue I linked
in the religious now meeting notes
having made a very good issues for every
like topic and he usually provides one
or like two or three ways to address
that so basically it's a need for
someone to review those options see if
it's like there are any pain points that
were not noticed yet and and generally
vote on one of them yeah awesome so
anybody who's interested in this topic
or cares about the COI interface and the
HTTP interface should click to run that
go issue and comment oh yeah great yeah
namely if if Stephen or or Y could find
a moment just to be sure we don't go
into the direction that it's not good or
has some blockers that would be very
very good all right any other questions
refused on this one are
let's move on Victor you had some stuff
about live-streaming yes so everyone can
hear me okay I last week I had the idea
of building applications would not be
possible to build unless we have pure
applications working in the browser so
something that people can see is
actually usable and would not be
possible with the existing technologies
we are and i've also wanted to try live
streaming for a while so i figured out i
would combine them so on Friday I spend
let's see okay it is
sly
which are I'm not sure if just me but at
least I cannot see anything on your
screen but I do see a mostly black
screen with a little bit of runway it
needs to refresh I know again it seems I
am still having the same technical
problem some perhaps before so I am
trying to stop the screen sharing I
don't know how you got in the way hmm
okay anyway the links are all there so
there is a link to the repository in the
end of issues to build a website that is
basically like a self-contained editor
in itself so what the the website sells
is that it loads its own source and
allows you to a and then he catches the
yogurt and so we have an editor that
kind of like edits itself and you would
be able to run it anywhere with history
and some other things so that's the
first link is to be github repository
where there is also a link to the
version that I managed to build after 5
hours the second one is the the video
itself it's five hours long it's come
alone to just sit through much more fun
to look at the end results as well and
the third link is just some some numbers
from YouTube I don't know what use
counter in this I can't imagine that 264
people watch the entire thing I think
that's just people who watch more than a
couple of or something like that
the average view duration was twenty
minutes one of those five hours I
managed to waste 55 hours in total of
people's time and as max there was 20
viewers and if you look at the graph in
the bottom you can see that people can
like died off in the end I think either
that's
because it was a Friday and people
stopped caring about programming care
about life again or could have been that
I was not as well prepared I guess for
the end where I can alike have stuck
with some issues with pub/sub and also
what to do next
so that's like the summary of the
livestream that I have I would love to
continue this with a bit more
preparation in the future I will see
questions
I have a question um Victor did how did
you implement I haven't watched the full
livestream so I didn't see and I'm not
sure where to read up on how did you
implement the offering a patch and
listening for offers like protocol or
the underlying way those messages are
passed back and forth yeah so I I didn't
get very far with that I basically just
managed to like set up a file name and a
hash was published on on a topic but I
never got to the receiving page and then
afterwards I started looking into how to
make that a bit simpler and what makes
sense for me is to actually have a git
repository living with the file so I
found this browser FS like shim for a
lot of different things so I I would
like to have ipfs be supported by
browser FS because then we would get
another library that will get on top of
that in JavaScript and then we can
actually send like traditional pull
requests over IP FS and pops up I will
put a link to the issue in browser FS
about the the ipfs integration so how
does the actual how would the push
happen if there's nowhere to push to
there's not a place right so rather than
doing push you would add your commit
under your branches and everything and
then you would just broadcast the git
commit that you have and someone can
pool in your repository so it's kind of
like a shame the the its implementation
believes there is a PI system but we
wouldn't do remotes but we would just
push see the actual get object over IP
FS in sir
interesting
there is actually like a issue from a
year ago or something like that the
browser FS about supporting get
supporting ideas in browser APIs and if
we have that we could use I assume
perfect yes I think it's called like a
javascript native implementation of yes
that just accept browser FS database or
a fight system
any other questions for Victor before we
move on
all right I think we're back to Oh
Victor again testing in cleaner yeah so
I'm sure you've noticed we have our IP
FS left testing repository that used to
be just about like the project
management I guess about the working
group and issues where it cannot spread
out across multiple repositories it was
hard to find issues you were hard to
track to work and so on
so I've sat down the last two days week
I guess to add labels and templates move
all the issues set up a dashboard and
everything so now if you if you create a
new issue you will have to fill out the
templates if so and basically anything
that would touch testing just open up
the issue in the ipfs testing and
everyone will be happy
so is that you're specifically focusing
on testing of the ipfs libraries and
tools not how people would test stuff
they're building with idea that's right
so there is also a plan for us or
testing third-party projects via or
beliefs process so in that way we'll be
related to the testing working group our
tool
you
any other questions sure about that
all right then I guess we're moving on
Matt you're the last person on the
agenda returning to the issue of it
format for these calls yeah there's been
some discussion on the issue so people
want an update you can just really get
hub issue in the discussions their main
thing I've just made a spreadsheet were
very generated now 21 people listed on
there 21 possible presentations that are
mostly presentations I've seen people
give before in other contexts so it's
basically invite that person to give the
talk party given elsewhere as one of our
IP FS all hands um so I am wonder if
there's anyone who wants to help to sort
of pick this up and help actually
implement it and there's it's sort of
overlaps with community process so if I
see that Michaels on here I don't know
if you're listening Michael but like it
sort of gets into community process
community management activities which we
are trying to grow that team right now
so I don't know if anyone wants to jump
in and help link into this this shift in
process and get it so that these these
all hand calls are mainly dominated by
each each call being a 20 min
presentation with some QA and then a
couple of announcements at the end and
we schedule those presentations out like
eight weeks in advance so people know
when they're presenting and people know
when there's going to be a presentation
they want to catch um does anyone want
to jump in on that I think Michaels
maybe not yes no no I mean I've been
commenting on the issue and I like the
process and everything I don't quite
have the bandwidth to drive it at the
moment um hopefully like next month I
would be able to drive it if it's still
hanging never DRI at that point but
mm-hmm
yeah so does anybody feel motivated to
jump in before then so I've made the
list I can help with the invitations and
stuff but I don't have the bandwidth to
be just like tending to the process of
making sure it all actually lands and
gets scheduled in that so does anyone
want to want to
jump in there and help with that
otherwise we'll wait another month til
til Michael has more more time okay I
don't see anyone
shaking their hands in the air okay all
right well then we'll we'll let that
list just keep growing and we'll when we
get more bandwidth well we'll make this
shift to the new new structure
Thanks yeah I'll definitely free up next
month right now we're just hiring so
much that that's kind of consuming a lot
of my time so that'll ease up yep and
once you've hired the people you can
help with this yes yes I think I'll take
it on and then I'll probably transition
it off to somebody once it's up and
running
all right any last-minute items Oh looks
like we do have demo I'm picking brain
for MPM and I give us
hello
screen that's great cool can everyone
see that
yep yep yes hopefully people can you
hear me as well I mean you say yes so
obviously you can him right so here's
what we got
I've got a docker container that
contains the registry mirror apena so
this is running without any any repo
initializer yet so it's running Italian
ipfs team and inside the process so you
don't need a separate demon anymore
which is mine because all the em FS that
has been implemented in choice of EFS so
I have in this window I have a very
simple package that just installs David
which is an app written by Alan Shaw who
which is nice because it installs NPM
which has lots and lots of dependencies
and so it's quite compared then to
install there's nothing that I write to
so I'm gonna just yeah run cache clean
so I've got no NPM cache
I mean if I install using my local local
copy of the registry mirror you can see
what happens so there's no cash here so
it goes off to NPM and downloads it and
then puts it into ipfs um which is why
it takes a little bit of time but we'll
run it again the second time with
everything in ipfs already so you can
see it going off and downloading and the
little present so when it's serving a
tarball to the user so well it downloads
that if I may add just a tiny piece of
context this was a project that we
started in 2015 we did a prototype
pretty the demo we got and yeah Monica
just threw girl I profess a
mathematician at a time like it worked
well like it did a thing but it was
mostly demo like there was still a lot
of things missing and then be killed
kind of like God forgotten in the repo
and so alex has been like grabbing at
projects like polishing the codebase
ability CLI now it's way more
informative
it's way more tested and now it also can
use Jessica Nelson oh it became like a
huge test vector for Joseph's defense
because not only an NPM and putting it
on electric Testament is a huge stress
test we found many IP pest issues in the
past
thanks to this and we are still finding
em FS issues everywhere and so this is
like super useful not just by the cool
fact that like you get to install NPM
modules are fine and true ipfs but also
because it's it's a great thing for for
ipfs as a project to get these these
guys done right got any great things to
test the performance of everything
that's fishing and it gets shy cause
everyone's looking at it a little do you
know how much time it usually takes yeah
he just takes about 30 seconds and so
that took 125 so if I run it again so
this is everything is now cash I'm gonna
delete all that first and
so I just removed the MPM cache but
everything is still cashing in my
defense so now it should be a lot faster
so you can see there's hardly any belly
it was known only thing that's going on
it's just serving things so he gets that
late second so by comparison if I just
if I use NPM itself so we're not hitting
the mirror at all
nine seconds so ipfs is actually faster
obviously it's selling it all locally so
they say there's that so of course I can
use yarn as well and if I'm a hipster
yeah right where you can see a slightly
different value go so yon goes off and
it downloads all the manifests first and
then figures out what it's going to do
and then starts getting all the tables
very dumpy I'm just kind of goes
dependency by dependency so that's
interesting if you're registering like
I've become
[Music]
any questions
it's very cool I guess like one step of
the demo should be like just putting a
VM so another machine and I do the npm
install and CIT comes true ipfs even if
you are it's collected from Wi-Fi yeah
yeah well I was considering just
disconnecting from the Wi-Fi as a joke
obviously no I just called the jokes and
I'm gonna do
I didn't matter the question okay can
you talk about what did the talk through
the benefit to it cuz like in the stem
the way you just did the side-by-side
comparison it's it's saving you one
second of using ipfs instead of mm and
that's not actually representative of
the benefits here yeah sure so if NPM
goes away or if another left pod happens
anything like the nest everything's on
the permanent web forever whether there
are their benefits for just everyday
developers through using NPM like in
your everyday activities does it make
their lives easier at all yeah sure I
mean like I said if like if you're in a
place where you can't get to NPM that
you do have ipfs like if you're on an
airplane for example and you've already
installed everything and you blow your
nose modules for gonna go ah no I don't
have to wait till I get into somewhere
would signal like now you don't think is
equally mic effects although the
benefits of ipfs as a whole just apply
to your dependencies development I think
there's also some other opportunities
here right like one of the problems with
keeping offline cache is NPM is that you
don't want to take the whole registry
that's too much and it's really hard to
actually know all of the modules that
you're using so if you were able to wire
something up where every time do you
depending on a package or install the
package it would then start subscribing
dates for it then you would have a cache
of just all of the stuff that you used
and then if you were offline or
somewhere that you couldn't get to it or
you needed to upgrade it would be much
much faster but yeah it's it's this is
the offline problem of the the whole
database is too big and but I don't
really know my set and allow you to use
something against my set and
we have like some really good efficient
structures for that casting
yeah okay any other questions
cool I guess that's that thanks for
listening
all right any other last-minute agenda
items or demos or anything that anybody
has before we close up for the day
I I could cry if my screen sharing works
now and demo the editing website well
since we're kind of about at the 30
minute mark why don't you do recording
for that and hear it
just add it to the notes once Booker
push the notes
you
anything else
all right well thanks everybody for
another good All Hands meeting lots of
super interesting demos and everything
and see you all next week